# EditorResourcePreviewGenerator

## Meta

- Name: EditorResourcePreviewGenerator
- Source: EditorResourcePreviewGenerator.xml
- Inherits: RefCounted
- Inheritance Chain: EditorResourcePreviewGenerator -> RefCounted -> Object

## Brief Description

Custom generator of previews.

## Description

Custom code to generate previews. Check EditorSettings.filesystem/file_dialog/thumbnail_size to find a proper size to generate previews at.

## Quick Reference

```
[methods]
_can_generate_small_preview() -> bool [virtual const]
_generate(resource: Resource, size: Vector2i, metadata: Dictionary) -> Texture2D [virtual required const]
_generate_from_path(path: String, size: Vector2i, metadata: Dictionary) -> Texture2D [virtual const]
_generate_small_preview_automatically() -> bool [virtual const]
_handles(type: String) -> bool [virtual required const]
request_draw_and_wait(viewport: RID) -> void [const]
```

## Methods

- _can_generate_small_preview() -> bool [virtual const]
  If this function returns true, the generator will call _generate() or _generate_from_path() for small previews as well. By default, it returns false.

- _generate(resource: Resource, size: Vector2i, metadata: Dictionary) -> Texture2D [virtual required const]
  Generate a preview from a given resource with the specified size. This must always be implemented. Returning null is an OK way to fail and let another generator take care. Care must be taken because this function is always called from a thread (not the main thread). metadata dictionary can be modified to store file-specific metadata that can be used in EditorResourceTooltipPlugin._make_tooltip_for_path() (like image size, sample length etc.).

- _generate_from_path(path: String, size: Vector2i, metadata: Dictionary) -> Texture2D [virtual const]
  Generate a preview directly from a path with the specified size. Implementing this is optional, as default code will load and call _generate(). Returning null is an OK way to fail and let another generator take care. Care must be taken because this function is always called from a thread (not the main thread). metadata dictionary can be modified to store file-specific metadata that can be used in EditorResourceTooltipPlugin._make_tooltip_for_path() (like image size, sample length etc.).

- _generate_small_preview_automatically() -> bool [virtual const]
  If this function returns true, the generator will automatically generate the small previews from the normal preview texture generated by the methods _generate() or _generate_from_path(). By default, it returns false.

- _handles(type: String) -> bool [virtual required const]
  Returns true if your generator supports the resource of type type.

- request_draw_and_wait(viewport: RID) -> void [const]
  Call from within _generate() to request the rendering server draw to the viewport.
