# LightmapGIData

## Meta

- Name: LightmapGIData
- Source: LightmapGIData.xml
- Inherits: Resource
- Inheritance Chain: LightmapGIData -> Resource -> RefCounted -> Object

## Brief Description

Contains baked lightmap and dynamic object probe data for LightmapGI.

## Description

LightmapGIData contains baked lightmap and dynamic object probe data for LightmapGI. It is replaced every time lightmaps are baked in LightmapGI.

## Quick Reference

```
[methods]
add_user(path: NodePath, uv_scale: Rect2, slice_index: int, sub_instance: int) -> void
clear_users() -> void
get_user_count() -> int [const]
get_user_path(user_idx: int) -> NodePath [const]
is_using_spherical_harmonics() -> bool [const]
set_uses_spherical_harmonics(uses_spherical_harmonics: bool) -> void

[properties]
light_texture: TextureLayered
lightmap_textures: TextureLayered[] = []
shadowmask_textures: TextureLayered[] = []
```

## Methods

- add_user(path: NodePath, uv_scale: Rect2, slice_index: int, sub_instance: int) -> void
  Adds an object that is considered baked within this LightmapGIData.

- clear_users() -> void
  Clear all objects that are considered baked within this LightmapGIData.

- get_user_count() -> int [const]
  Returns the number of objects that are considered baked within this LightmapGIData.

- get_user_path(user_idx: int) -> NodePath [const]
  Returns the NodePath of the baked object at index user_idx.

- is_using_spherical_harmonics() -> bool [const]
  If true, lightmaps were baked with directional information. See also LightmapGI.directional.

- set_uses_spherical_harmonics(uses_spherical_harmonics: bool) -> void
  If uses_spherical_harmonics is true, tells the engine to treat the lightmap data as if it was baked with directional information. **Note:** Changing this value on already baked lightmaps will not cause them to be baked again. This means the material appearance will look incorrect until lightmaps are baked again, in which case the value set here is discarded as the entire LightmapGIData resource is replaced by the lightmapper.

## Properties

- light_texture: TextureLayered [set set_light_texture; get get_light_texture]
  The lightmap atlas texture generated by the lightmapper.

- lightmap_textures: TextureLayered[] = [] [set set_lightmap_textures; get get_lightmap_textures]
  The lightmap atlas textures generated by the lightmapper.

- shadowmask_textures: TextureLayered[] = [] [set set_shadowmask_textures; get get_shadowmask_textures]
  The shadowmask atlas textures generated by the lightmapper.

## Constants

### Enum ShadowmaskMode

- SHADOWMASK_MODE_NONE = 0
  Shadowmasking is disabled. No shadowmask texture will be created when baking lightmaps. Existing shadowmask textures will be removed during baking.

- SHADOWMASK_MODE_REPLACE = 1
  Shadowmasking is enabled. Directional shadows that are outside the DirectionalLight3D.directional_shadow_max_distance will be rendered using the shadowmask texture. Shadows that are inside the range will be rendered using real-time shadows exclusively. This mode allows for more precise real-time shadows up close, without the potential "smearing" effect that can occur when using lightmaps with a high texel size. The downside is that when the camera moves fast, the transition between the real-time light and shadowmask can be obvious. Also, objects that only have shadows baked in the shadowmask (and no real-time shadows) won't display any shadows up close.

- SHADOWMASK_MODE_OVERLAY = 2
  Shadowmasking is enabled. Directional shadows will be rendered with real-time shadows overlaid on top of the shadowmask texture. This mode makes for smoother shadow transitions when the camera moves fast, at the cost of a potential smearing effect for directional shadows that are up close (due to the real-time shadow being mixed with a low-resolution shadowmask). Objects that only have shadows baked in the shadowmask (and no real-time shadows) will keep their shadows up close.
